---
title: Goals for 2019
date: 2019-06-22T14:37:20+00:00
slug: goals-for-2019
categories: [New Year Plans]
comments: true  # Enable Disqus comments for specific page
---

Here are a few things that I want to achieve in 2019.

## Non-physics

I hope I can finish writing up my master thesis before September.
The plan is to finish the first draft before mid July, and working on its revision starting from mid August.

## About Physics

I'm so happy that The University of Tokyo (UTokyo) gives me one graduate school offer, so I can start my physics journey! 
Before attending UTokyo in September this year, I still need to learn more physics on my own. 
Here are my plans for first half year:

  1. My first group theory study: *Group Theory in a Nutshell for Physicists* by Antony Zee. 
  I started learning this book early this year, and spent lots of time during winter vacation (Spring festival). 
  I finished studying Part I ~ Part VI in April, but I didn't go much detail into Dynkin Diagrams. 
  Plan to find time to finish the remaining chapters, maybe later this year.
  1. The last undergraduate quantum mechanics course: *8.06x Applications of Quantum Mechanics* by Barton Zwiebach. 
  This MITx course is the last one of MIT's quantum mechanics course series, the best online course among all MOOCs! 
  It started in February and will end on July 6. 
  So I continued my quantum mechanics study with Prof. Zwiebach, Jolyon, Jim, Mark, Gleeson, Walter, Nicholas and all others. 
  Rich experience!
  1. A Statistics course: *18.6501x Fundamentals of Statistics*.
  This course is not as excellent as other MITx courses I took, and I felt a little boring. 
  I didn't even attend its final exam, but I passed the course with final grade 71%.
  1. My second complex analysis course: *Complex Analysis with Physical Applications* by two Russian physicists: Prof. Yaroslav Rodionov and Prof. Konstantin Tikhonov. 
  This is a tough course with 9 units, one unit a week. 
  I didn't survive dedicated problem in Week 7 but I have not given up yet. 
  I think I can finish the last two weeks.
  1. My first general relativity study: *Einstein Gravity in a Nutshell* by Antony Zee. 
  I started study this book together with Zee's group theory book. 
  However, the study was interrupted for a while starting from mid May, because I needed to work on my term paper for 8.06x and treat Professor Ballarini's family after they arrived in Shanghai on May 20. 
  And now I'm working on my master's thesis and still haven't pick it up. 
 I should finish my first draft of my thesis as soon as possible!
  1. A string course for undergraduates: *A First Course in String Theory* by Barton Zwiebach. 
  This is an excellent course and there are video lectures by Prof. Zwiebach on PSI's website or YouTube. 
  I started to study this book in April but the study was interrupted in mid May for the same reason stated above. 
  I haven't restarted it yet.
  1. My first quantum field theory course: *Quantum Field Theory* by Mark Srednicki. 
  I started to learn it in April but the study was interrupted and I still haven't pick it up.

Here are my plans for second half year. Since I don't know what the study life will be like in UTokyo, this plan is tentative.

  1. A course on quantum optics: [*Quantum Optics 1 : Single Photons*][2] provided by École Polytechnique and lectured by Alain Aspect and Michel Bruce. 
  This course is recommended by Jim and is closed related to my 8.06x term paper. 
  It will start on June 24. 
  The second part of this course will run for the first time in September and I will add it here when it starts.
  1. My second course on statistical mechanics: [*8.333 Statistical Mechanics I: Statistical Mechanics of Particles*](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-333-statistical-mechanics-i-statistical-mechanics-of-particles-fall-2013/) and [*8.334 Statistical Mechanics II: Statistical Physics of Fields*](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-334-statistical-mechanics-ii-statistical-physics-of-fields-spring-2014/) by Mehran Kardar.
  1. Some courses on condensed matter physics: maybe *Quantum Many-particle Systems* by Negele and Orland, or *Condensed Matter Field Theory* by Altland and Simons.
  1. I would like to read Feynman's book *Quantum Mechanics and Path Integrals*.
  1. I should take a course on undergraduate level mathematical physics. 
  Mark's suggestion is Kevin Cahill's video lectures on mathematical physics [Spring 2017 Physics 467 Physical Mathematics][3].
  1. More on classical physics: *Modern Classical Physics: Optics, Fluids, Plasmas, Elasticity, Relativity, and Statistical Physics* by Kip S. Thorne and Roger D. Blandford.
  1. Since I will focus on computational physics for my PhD work, I need to learn some related courses: *Numerical Methods that Work* by Acton, and *Computational Physics* by Mark Newman

 [2]: https://www.coursera.org/learn/quantum-optics-single-photon/home/welcome
 [3]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpyIij4nP6QI6RTPccqwCAXiqfjRk5KKw&disable_polymer=true
